.TH fence_xvmd 8

.SH NAME
fence_xvmd - Libvirt-based, general purpose fencing host for virtual machines.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_xvmd
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_xvmd is an I/O Fencing host which resides on bare metal machines
and is used in conjunction with the fence_xvm fencing agent.  Together,
these two programs can be used to fence can be used 
machines which are part of a cluster.

If the virtual machines are backed by clustered storage or the virtual
machines may be migrated to other physical machines, all physical
machines in question must also be a part of their own CMAN/OpenAIS based
cluster.  Furthermore, the bare metal cluster is required to have
fencing configured if virtual machine recovery is expected to be automatic.

fence_xvmd accepts options on the command line and from cluster.conf

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-f\fP
Foreground mode (do not fork)
.TP
\fB-d\fP
Enable debugging output.  The more times you specify this parameter,
the more debugging output you will receive.
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIfamily\fP
IP family to use (auto, ipv4, or ipv6; default = auto)
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIaddress\fP
Multicast address to listen on (default=225.0.0.12 for ipv4, ff02::3:1
for ipv6)
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIport\fP
Port to use (default=1229)
.TP
\fB-I\fP \fIinterface\fP
Network interface to listen on, e.g. eth0.
.TP
\fB-C\fP \fIauth\fP
Authentication type (none, sha1, sha256, sha512; default=sha256).  This
controls the authentication mechanism used to authenticate clients.  The
three SHA hashes use a key which must be shared between both the virtual
machines and the host machine or cluster.  The three SHA authentication 
mechanisms use a simple bidirectional challenge-response based on pseudo-
random number generation and a shared private key.
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIhash\fP
Packet hash type (none, sha1, sha256, sha512; default=sha256).  This
controls the hashing mechanism used to authenticate fencing requests.  The
three SHA hashes use a key which must be shared between both the virtual
machines and the host machine or cluster.
.TP
\fB-k\fP \fIkey_file\fP
Use the specified key file for packet hashing / SHA authentication.
When both the hash type and the authentication type are set to "none",
this parameter is ignored.
.TP
\fB-u\fP
Fence by UUID instead of virtual machine name.
.TP
\fB-?\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-X\fP
Do not connect to CCS for configuration; only use command line
parameters.  CCS configuration parameters override command line
parameters (because they are cluster-wide), so if you need to 
override a configuration option contained in CCS, you must specify
this parameter.
.TP
\fB-L\fP
Local-only / non-cluster mode.  When used with -X, this this option
prevents fence_xvmd from operating as a clustered service, obviating
the need to configure/run CMAN on the host domain.
.TP
\fB-U\fP \fIuri\fP
Force use of the specified URI for connecting to the hypervisor.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH CCS PARAMETERS
CCS options are simply attributes of the <fence_xvmd> tag, a
child of the <cluster> tag in /etc/cluster/cluster.conf.
.TP
\fIdebug="1"\fR
Same as the -d option.  Specify numbers >1 for more debugging information.
.TP
\fIfamily="param"\fR
Same as the -i option.
.TP
\fImulticast_address="param"\fR
Same as the -a option.
.TP
\fIport="param"\fR
Same as the -p option.
.TP
\fIauth="param"\fR
Same as the -C option.
.TP
\fIhash="param"\fR
Same as the -c option.
.TP
\fIkey_file="param"\fR
Same as the -k option.
.TP
\fIuse_uuid="1"\fR
Same as the -u option.
.TP


.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8), fence_xvm(8)
